we start in southern Gaza where the
Israeli military has besieged the
largest medical facility in Khan Yunis
these are scenes from NASA hospital
overnight just moments after it was
shelled Israeli forces stormed the
complex detaining doctors and
patients in central Gaza an Israeli air
strike flattened the residential
building in the noat refugee camp
killing at least 14 people children are
among the dead at least
28,5 76 Palestinians have been killed
since October the 7th Hal Mahmud joins
us now live from Rafa in southern Gaza
let's start with the latest on a NASA
hospital we understand in addition to
the shelling it's been stormed what's
happened to the patients the staff and
the people taking Refuge
there yes Sammy and just within the past
45 minutes right just right after I
finished my earlier report uh a car uh
drove all the way from the main road
leading to Han un all the way to here to
Kuwaiti Hospital carrying a doctor and
two other people who were on their way
outside of the hospital a Qui capture
around the vicinity of Naser Hospital uh
they were ordered by the isra military
to evacuate they got through the
checkpoints but then just minutes away
from the checkpoints qu copters attack a
drone fired at them uh injuring a doctor
who was evacuating and two other uh
people uh an all transferred here to
Kuwaiti Hospital next to where I'm
reporting uh from this is what's going
on with evacuees inside the hospital
they're asked to evacuate ordered Shar
sharply by the military they go through
a checkpoint and then within just
minutes from there uh evacuating the
hospital they are being uh they are shot
at and fired at by either either attack
drones or heavy Fire by Machine uh by
machine guns but what's going on in
right now at the courtyard of the
hospital Israeli military bulldozed the
Southern Fence of the hospital and
stormed the courtyard from the southern
part of the health facilities all the
way to the main uh building the
emergency uh building and uh rounded up
doctors and nurses inside the hallway of
the hospital now right now they're
asking doctors to take all the injuries
and the patients and put them in the old
building uh of the of the health
facility right this is on the northern
part of the courtyard of the of the
hospital this old building represents
the building block and the foundation
block of the hospital when it was
established uh few years ago uh there
are in there is increasingly uh
devastating news inside the hospital as
more of these injuries they need they
need help help to move from one
Department to another let alone walking
a quite short long distance to get to
the old building some of them are on on
on oxygen tanks that they need to be
carried with them Israeli military is
preventing doctors preventing any of the
nurse to help any of these injuries or
the patient who suffer from a chronic
disease from Health complications to
lend him a hand to help them move from
this from the emergency building all the
way to the uh the Foundation Building
there's also at earlier hours the let me
just jump in there if I may just just to
clarify make sure we're understanding
what you're saying correctly then
so a lot of the patients and staff and I
I I assume you mean also those who were
just taking Refuge from the displaced
people they've been told by the Israeli
occupation authorities to move towards
the northern part of the courtyard so
assumably there's still a lot of
civilians inside the NASA hospital and
the other thing you've mentioned is some
of the people who were trying to
evacuate were attacked by Israeli
military drones after they crossed a
checkpoint is that is that the picture
that's
emerging yes that's exactly what
happened and three of those who were who
just evacuated from the hospital got
through the checkpoint to the Kuwaiti
hospital and not right now are being
treated inside the Kuwaiti hospital it
it's quite long distance they drove all
the way while bleeding as they were
attacked by the quad captur those are
attack drones fired at them they were
injured carried by people in a car and
brought all the way from Kan unun uh to
the Kuwait Hospital uh right here next
to where I'm reporting uh from what
we're getting right now is the situation
are getting worse by uh by the hour not
only we have people who are inside the
hospital being attacked by the is really
invading forces inside the courtyard of
the hospital but also people who are
sustaining double injuries right now
we're talking about the orthopedic
department where people who suffered the
critical
injuries at the beginning of the war and
since the beginning of the ground
Invasion and because of the constant
Shilling of the department and the
building where the department is they
are injured while they are on their
hospital bed this is double injuries and
they are now because the hospital is out
of service completely let alone there is
no oxygen as the oxygen station
destroyed completely just putting the
the their life at risk as the storming
continue and the bombing continue and
the uh the rounding up and a mass arrest
is taking place right now but hany
what's happening in the rest of Gaza now
because there's a lot of concern about
the supply of medicine and basic things
like food for people since it seems a
supplies have been disrupted for a while
now nothing much is getting
in yes not enough is getting in that
that is correct and we compare the the
amount of Aid that has been so far
allowed into particularly here in ra
City compared to to the greater needs of
people displaced families and evacuates
it's just a trickle amount of food right
now not only we're seeing a depletion of
basic necessities and supplies and
particularly since the announcement of a
of a plan to expand the ground invasion
in Rafa City not only a scarcity of
supplies and necessity but also if they
are available prices just uh scaled up
to double and triple uh the uh the
amount just making it very difficult for
those who are suffering from financial
problems and they are in unable uh to uh
to pay for the the prices the double
prices triple prices of these goods and
supplies we're talking four months and
more than four months now no no payrolls
going on no paycheck private sector
completely destroyed and and suffer from
economic
Suffocation the employees of the
Palestine Authority have not received uh
salary on a regular basis within the
past 4 months just increasingly
difficult living conditions uh for
people right now who are unable uh to
meet the the the greater needs that the
that their children their families need
right now as of the the war continues to
make their life very difficult this is
what what have what people have been
frustrated about it's not only the
bombing right now that is killing them
but also the difficult living conditions
the spread of diseases the malnutrition
that risk the life of their children and
the most vulnerable groups in this war
particularly happen to be
children all right hany Mahmud there
thank you so much for that
update